# Section 1

## Initial Setup and React Overview

### Setup

1. Make sure you are in the section-1 directory
2. Run `npm install`
3. Run `npm start`
4. A browser should have opened to localhost:3000 and 'Hello Worlds Best React Workshop' should be displayed

### Overview

#### node_modules

The node_modules folder contains the source code for all of our dependencies specified in our package.json.
When the app is built these node_modules are packed together with the rest of the app to be served to the browser.
Since we used create-react-app this is done behind the scenes using webpack.

##### Pro tips:

- node_modules should be kept localy, do not push to any shared repo
- Do not modify any files with in node_modules

#### package.json

The package.json file acts as manifest for the application. It is mostly comprised of project meta-data, scripts, and a list of the projects dependencies and their versions. The list of dependencies it provides is the reason the node_modules folder can remain local. Since all one would need to install a projects dependencies would be the package.json.

#### package-lock.json

The package-lock.json is a file that is auto generated by npm. It describes the exact dependency tree comprised of all dependencies/versions as well as their sub-dependencies/versions. It is intended to be commited to source repositories in order to provide a single representation of the dependency tree and guarantee the exact same modules are installed in any environment.

#### React at a glance

React applications are typicly written useing jsx. While you do not have to use jsx it is highly recommened since is provides a helpful visual aid when working with UI inside JavaScript code. React makes use of a virtual DOM that manages state updates before rendering to the actual DOM usually through a single div. The virtual DOM compares an element and its children to the previous one, and only applies the DOM updates necessary to bring the DOM to the desired state.
